$Id$

Severity: 1 & 2 should be fixed before release , 3 & 4 should be fixed
as time permits.  5 & 6 may never be fixed.

1   Critical    Application won't run for long or won't compile.
2   Major       A major subsection of the app won't run properly.
3   Moderate    Minor subsections won't run properly.
4   Minor       Annoyance bugs.
5   Cosmetic    Incorrect appearance of program or dialogs.
6   No Problem  :-)


--------
DEFECTS:
--------

Severity
| Submitter
|   |       Description
|   |       |

1 we7u      Rolf suggested that we need README.1ST translated into the other
            languages as well.  Non English-speaking people might not be able
            to get it installed without this.

1 we7u      Clean up Solaris/BSD/RedHat/SuSE compiles using autoconfigure.
            Xpm libraries need fixing up for Solaris.  Note: Xpm not included in
            default Solaris install.  These can be found at
            http://www.sunfreeware.com (kg4ijb) app will compile on Solaris but
            dies a slow death.

1 we7u      Changing locale ($LANG=Francais) causes Xastir to crash.  Among
            other things it causes numbers to use ',' instead of '.' for
            the decimal.  These changes get carried into the config file
            as well.
            DK7IN: I had these long ago and changed the code in some places
            to NOT use scanf(), may be the same problem here? It only goes
            wrong during the initialisation period, there should be some
            comments about that available in the sources.

1 dk7in     A wrong path/filename in a geo file leads to a crash during map
            loading.

1 dk7in     Unknown colour names in XPM files lead to a crash during map
            loading. These names come out of convert. Loading and storing
            that XPM file in GIMP fixes this by using #123456 notation.

2 we7u      Fix list windows on Solaris so they are bigger than 1 pixel high.
2 vk3aym    In the configuration file there apears to be a problem with the
            logic when you specify --with-ax25. Ax25 does not appear to be
            compiled into the program. If you specify ./configuration without
            parameters, ax25 apears to be compiled into the program.

3 dk7in     Maybe altitude needs to be converted to meters in some $GPGGA sentences
3 dk7in     X Window related memory leakages (in lists, maybe dialogs)

4 dk7in     Inconsistent weather data representation, sometimes we use
            rounding, sometimes not.
4 dk7in     For the very first time, Station Info reports wrong date/time for
            my own stations data (not initialized?).
4 dk7in     1m difference between current height and that, that is later in
            the tracklog, I think it's some rounding differences.
4 dk7in     Configure Station is missing metric units
4 dk7in     If receiving data from findu.com the altitude is copied from
            earlier data. But it is not available.
4 dk7in     If a station transmits 0°N/0°E I could not search for it, and
            its trail disappeares. Kenwood radios often do this.
4 dk7in     Time for message receives goes into displayed time for position,
            but we had not get a new position. Last position time and last
            time heard are somehow mixed.
4 dk7in     PgUp/PgDn/Home/End/Esc keys should work in lists.
4 dk7in     Search for lowercase (objects) only works with "Match Case" set
4 dk7in     Accept only valid calls in Configure Station
4 dk7in     Include new (proposed) object timeout
4 dk7in     Translate Dutch help file
4 dk7in     Map Location window should be closed after "GO!"

5 dk7in     List screens do not show the correct size at init, ok afterwards
5 dk7in     '*' should only be accepted as LAST char in digi call
5 dk7in     Don't write NWS data into the station database
5 dk7in     Should we delete leading spaces in object names? It's allowed by APRS Spec

-------------
ENHANCEMENTS:
-------------




Move items to the following section after they are resolved.

---------
RESOLVED:
---------

2 dk7in     Update German language file
2 we7u      Interface thread is hanging up.  Possibly due to mutex locks?
2 we7u      Dialogs closed while updating causes segfaults.  Needs mutex's?
4 dk7in     Trails from outside stations not shown if zoomed far in
4 dk7in     Translate German help file
3 dk7in     Items are not yet decoded
3 we7u      Igate connections or DNS lookups sometimes cause segfaults or temporary freezes.
5 dk7in     Missing Eyeball symbol (and others)

